Science is going to be fundamentally
different in like 5 years. What would it
mean for me as a patient? This is the
part I'm so excited about. This is
Priscilla Chang, a Harvard graduate who
went to UCSF School of Medicine to study
pediatrics. She treated children at UCSF
until one moment in the clinic changed
everything.
>> It was honestly scary and really shook
my understanding of medicine. In 2015,
alongside her husband Mark Zuckerberg,
they launched the Chan Zuckerberg
initiative with the most ambitious goal.
Our mission is to cure cure or prevent
all disease. And we used to say by the
end of the century, but I think it's
much sooner. I would say like in the 10
years later, they've invested over $7
billion, built three biohubs, and are
committed to creating AI models that map
human cells, unlocking how disease
begins and how it could end. And once we
do that, we will be the first diseases
that you think are going to be cured.
Um, she's betting on a future where
science, data, and AI converge to end
sickness as we know it. The only
question is how soon can we make that
future real?
>> We're rolling now.
>> Perfect.
>> Okay, Priscilla, thank you so much. Um,
I have a personal story that I wanted to
share.
>> Okay. In 2015, you and Mark shared that
you were pregnant with your first baby,
but also that you've experienced it
miscarriages. Yeah.
>> And I was going through the same
process, but for me, it started in 2015,
and we only were able to have a baby in
2019.
>> Oh, God bless.
>> And I think you were the first
>> public couple to share something like
this on social media, and that kept me
through the process of
>> Oh, you're going to make me start off by
crying. I I I just really wanted to
share this and I am so grateful that you
started talking about this problem
because when you're going through it, it
feels like you're just alone in it. Now
with social media, people are sharing
more and more, but when you're in it and
when the doctors tell you, "Oh, it was
your fault or whatever." Cuz some
doctors told me that
>> the worst.
>> But thank you so much.
>> Oh, I'm so glad being brave and sharing.
>> And now you have two kids.
>> And now I have two kids.
>> It's just like I I Yeah. I I mean I'm so
glad that that all worked out and I felt
the same way. I was like I'm completely
alone. I don't know anyone who has gone
through this. Actually Beyonce um also
had this problem. So you, me and Beyonce
are in the same group.
>> Okay. I feel like 20% of all women
experience some kind of variation of
this problem. It's very common. It's
just it's not talked about that much.
>> But I think that it's the exciting part
is like one way or another people will
have their families.
>> Yeah.
>> So thank you for that. And so when you
had Maxine, you decided to commit 99% of
your wealth into CZI, this initiative.
>> Yeah. So when we had Max, you've
probably experienced this too.
Everything sort of becomes very real.
Like the future is not some abstract
time in the in the distant future.
You're like, I have this baby. She's
coming now. Like what are we going to do
to actually like prepare for her? And
you know, we did the normal nesting
stuff, too. But what we really wanted
was to do our part in building a future
where she could be healthy and thrive.
And that's why we started the Chan
Zuckerberg Initiative to figure out like
what could we bring to the table? What
could we do to build a future where kids
um are part of a world that's even
better than what we have today?
>> And what's your mission with CZI?
>> Our mission with CZI and now Biohub is
to cure cure or prevent all disease. Um,
and we used to say by the end of the
century, but through a bunch of work
that we've done and uh these AI coming
online with large language models, we've
been able to see a pathway to this
becoming a reality much sooner than the
end of the century. I would say like in
the coming decades, it really comes down
to whether or not we can make every
scientist faster and more efficient and
to take more risks. Like that's so
important. Um, and no one organization,
not our organization, not any other
organization is going to do it alone.
And our strategy is how do we build
tools to make every single scientist
better and to be able to test their
riskiest, bravest ideas. And that's how
we're going to be able to move this
forward in a pace that hopefully will
blow all of our minds. And what we're
doing at the biohub is we want to
combine uh frontier science with
frontier AI work to really bring
together uh a world where we are able to
push forward science to have direct
impact on people's lives much much
sooner. This mission sounds amazing but
also so brave right we're going to cure
all diseases. So when you stated this 10
years ago versus now, like how has
people's reaction changed when LLMs came
around?
>> It's such a great question because 10
years ago people looked at us like
you're nuts. How do you even do that?
And it was exactly that reaction that we
said, okay, tell us why we are wrong.
Tell us why that won't happen. And that
really forced people to pause and
instead of just a knee-jerk reaction,
think through like why is that not
possible? And that really prompted
people to say, well, we need better
tools. We need better data set. We need
new techniques in the lab. We need to
have different types of people come in
to solve this problem together. And then
we said, okay, if that's the problem,
then let's go do it. And so, uh, we
started building tools for scientists.
We built the biohubs where we bring
together scientists, engineers,
biologists, uh, physicists, all
different backgrounds to solve a common
problem together. And we went from one
biohub to four in the past 10 years. And
all that we were making steady progress.
And um, we also built one of the largest
data sets around single cell biology.
But again, we built that not knowing
where it was going to go. And then two
years ago, we both had this data set
cellby gene coming together. And then
people were like, you know, like what
about large language models? And I was
like, I don't know what that is. Like
let me look that up. I am a physician by
training, not uh a engineer or a machine
learning expert. And so I looked it up.
I was like, wait a minute, this is
actually perfect. I see the pathway to
taking the incredible amount of data
that can come out of biology labs and
actually extract meaningful knowledge.
And that was, you know, maybe two years
ago. Now today, you say it and some
people are still skeptical, but a a lot
of people look at it and say, "Okay, I
can see how you can get there." Um, and
that has been a complete um step change
for us and incredibly exciting. I get so
much energy uh doing this work.
>> Do you remember the moment when you were
like okay this is when I need to start
doing this. This is when I need to start
investing in biology. Was there some
personal story behind that?
>> Well um I trained as a pediatrician at
UCSF. Uh and UCSF is you know a very
fancy academic
>> delivered both babies there because
they're pro-natural birth. I was
researching. So I drove from Los Altus
Hills to UCSF. incredible during
contractions,
>> but it was the best.
>> You probably delivered at the fancy,
beautiful new hospital, too. Um, I'm so
glad
>> it's the best.
>> So, that's where I trained. And, you
know, hopefully you had a very
uncomplicated experience there.
>> But for a lot of people who bring their
kids there, it is because no one else
has been able to give them an answer or
they need a subsp specialty that doesn't
really exist anywhere else. And as a
pediatrician, those were the kids I was
taking care of most of the time. And it
was honestly scary and really shook my
understanding of medicine going into
medical school and residency. I was
like, if I do a good job and I sort of
learn what's being taught, I'm going to
be able to help people. And what I
learned in the clinic and on the wards
is a lot of these kids have things that
we don't know the names of and we don't
know how to treat. We barely can
describe it. the hope that their parents
held on to was was the little research
that existed on their kids's issue. And
I looked at it and I looked at they
would hand me these PDFs and I would
look at the PDF and it be like how do I
translate that to medicine or treatment
or what I need to do for this kid? It
was so limited.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's when I realized that being
able to move basic science forward,
that's where hope comes from for these
kids.
>> Yeah. And so, you know, just pulling on
that thread led me to really think about
how can we make an impact in biology.
>> Quick pause here. If you're enjoying
this podcast, you will absolutely love
my inner circle newsletter. My
newsletter is basically behind the
scenes from the heart of Silicon Valley.
I'm building a language company, a
personal brand, a family, all while
navigating tech and creativity. So,
every week I share real wins, real
falls, quick actionable tips to level up
your business and life. Let's build and
grow together. The link is in the
description. Join my free newsletter to
stay ahead.
>> And with this, you're not focusing on
any particular diseases, right? You're
just trying to map our cells and all of
that. Or is there some focus? There
really isn't. And the way to think about
it is we want to make all scientists
better at doing their job and more
effective. And we have built, you know,
annotation tools. We have built uh
technical wet lab tools to help
scientists do their work. And um the
cell by gene work where we is what we
did when we mapped out individual cells
and how they were each uh different
across a human body. You know, you have
the same DNA uh creates your skin cell
that creates your heart cell, your
liver. It's the same DNA. How does it
actually lead to such different
outcomes? And what happens when the DNA
has a mutation or something goes wrong?
How do we understand what happens inside
your cell? And the really cool thing
there is if we can understand
how it works when it's healthy and what
happens when there's an error or
something happens u from the outside,
what is actually the impact? How does
the cell look differently? Because if
you understand it at that level then you
can design very specific treatments to
actually correct the issue. And so we
don't work disease by disease but we
want us want to work in a world where we
can experiment quickly efficiently on
human uh knowledge. Right now a lot of
the models are like you know you can
study in flies or mice or rats but that
doesn't always translate to humans. And
so we think if we can build a virtual
cell model that allows us to do a lot of
this experimentation on a human model
but on a computer then it's cheaper,
it's faster for scientists to do the
research and it applies more directly to
the clinic and has more direct impact on
people's lives. Before our interview
with Priscilla, I got to meet some
incredible scientists who are mapping
what's happening inside our cell.
They're working on something called
virtual cells, computer simulations that
replicate how real biological cells
behave and function. Once we have fully
working virtual cells, it will
completely change medicine, biology, and
even how we understand life because
we'll be able to understand disease
before it happens. Drug discovery will
be hundreds of times faster. We'll get
personalized health because we'll be
able to have our digital twins and
biology will basically become
programmable. Virtual cells will change
everything. So, how far do you think we
are from an actual virtual cell?
>> Oh, it really depends on who you ask.
Um, if you ask the AI folks, they're
like, you know, 3 years, 2 years, and
they're impatient. If you sort of ask
folks with the biology background,
there's so many different dimensions.
And you know, we're looking a little
further out, but you know, I would say
the way we think about science is going
to be fundamentally different in terms
of uh our ability to model the human
cell in like 5 years. What would it mean
for me as a patient? What will change in
5 years?
>> In 5 years, I think scientists will have
an incredible tool. Obviously, like
that's great, but the thing we actually
all care about is the impact on people's
lives. This is the part I'm so excited
about.
We need to understand individuals
biology. Right now, we get to have this
like on average, this is what a skin
cell does. On average, this is how your
brain cell behaves. But none of us are
average. And each of us has unique
biology. But the research won't tell me
how my brain would react to a certain
medication than your brain would. But we
have very distinct biology. The thing I
want is for us to be able to do medicine
um where it's also on the frontier. We
can understand based on your genetics,
this is how your brain reacts to certain
conditions, how it responds to different
medications. And because we all have
variance within our DNA, that is the
part I'm so excited about because right
now we either don't understand or we
give you a treatment that's our that's
our best guess.
>> Yeah. And it causes a lot of suffering.
And you know what kind of diseases are
this? People often think, okay, we're
talking about rare diseases that we
don't have treatments for. And it's
true, rare diseases are a really good
match for this type of work. But in
reality, common diseases are rare
diseases. I think things like
hypertension and depression,
there's these big categories, but
actually they it should fall break down
into different subd diseases.
Because you know some one person reacts
very differently to a blood pressure
medication than another. Uh one person's
uh depression reacts very differently to
one type class of anti-depressants than
others. And if we understood each one of
our biology, we would either be able to
choose the most effective medication
right away or design it. And that's the
world I I I I know we're gonna be able
to live in once we can understand the
biology at a more granular level as
well.
>> And once we do that, what will be the
first diseases that you think are going
to be cured?
>> Oh, this is such an interesting
question. Honestly, I don't really have
uh like I said, we allow scientists from
the outside to take it and solve
problems. But I will say I think the
immune system is fascinating.
Because the immune system is built in.
It's like in your DNA. It's in your
biology. It keeps you healthy. It's
critical. And when it's overactive, it
also makes you sick. So, there's like a
very fine balance in the immune system
that if we understood how that balance
gets out of whack in either direction,
we could help a lot of people with
autoimmune disease. That would be
incredible. Another application is right
now immune cells are already special
cells. They get to go all over your body
and solve problems. What if we just
enhance that to uh allow us to engineer
immune cells to say like go to your
heart and say are there plaques in the
arteries? Uh tell us yes or no and then
go do something about it, clean it up.
like those cells already exist in your
body and we can it's it sounds like
science fiction but it's not
>> it does it's not our New York uh Biohub
is working on this very question and so
I think there's so much promise in
enhancing the way the immune system uh
works and understanding the different
levers that optimize it in each one of
us. So basically in 10 years if
everything goes well the way we treat
cold would be let's extract my immune
cell reprogram it put it back and it
treats cold is that
>> oh cold is interesting I would say you
probably don't want to wait for your
immune cell to be re re-engineered for
that but like let's talk about um
multiple sclerosis or neuro degeneration
like you want to understand exactly in
which pathway you have upregulated ated
interlucan 10 or whatever it is and you
want to be able to dial it back down so
that your immune system doesn't attack
itself. That would be incredible. Uh and
I think there's a lot more you can do
actually in um
helping address like actual infectious
diseases too. But I think the thing I
want to really expand everyone's
imagination on is that the immune system
is not just good for infectious disease.
It's actually critical in keeping all of
our organs healthy.
>> I was just talking to some of your
scientists and they told me you were
able to map 0.1% of the cell to build
this virtual model. Does this number get
us somewhere or we still need to map at
least like 50% to understand what's
going on. There's so much more work to
do um that luckily it just gets faster
and faster. It took us um 10 years to
map you know around 100 million cells
but it's taken us months to map a
billion cells. So the rate of the
ability to map and understand uh
different dimensions of the cell has
accelerated. Is that because of AI or
because you already have the data set?
It's because the actually the hardware
tools has gotten a lot faster but also
clarity of purpose. Right. But the other
thing that needs to happen is that's
just when we talk about the human cell
atlas data set that's at the single cell
transcrytoics. We are looking at how
your DNA is being trans transcribed to
RNA in different cell types. But that's
just one dimension. We need to be
looking at where the proteins are. So
that's why you know here at the imaging
institute we're looking at it in a cell
map and we can look at the layout and
look at where the proteins being
expressed. But still those cells are
frozen and sliced. So then we need to
look at it in a living cell and we need
to look at how the cell behaves in
different contexts. There's just so many
more angles of that we haven't been able
to probe and understand. So a lot more
needs to happen. But the really exciting
thing uh for us is we pair our AI labs
with our wet labs. And so that
conversation between those two teams,
they aren't siloed. The AI lab can say,
"Okay, we've built this model. We have
this blind spot or we need to look at
this next." The wet lab can say, "Oh,
well actually we either we can do it or
we know someone who can do it." And then
they can also feed information around
the metadata of what they're seeing in
the lab and share that with the AI
researchers so they can build that more
efficiently. And then vice versa they
can the folks in the wet lab can say I
have this bottleneck I can't efficiently
look at the tomograms that are coming
out of the cryoet then they can say oh I
can build you something to help with
that and so it's that combination of uh
frontier and frontier biology that we
are hoping comes together in a flywheel
to make this work so much faster. It's
fascinating. So even with uh like cardio
diseases right when you said clear
plaques that yeah that's something the
immune system could do.
>> Totally.
>> And you're building a virtual immune
system right?
>> Yes.
>> Can you talk about it? What does it
mean?
>> So you know I've been talking a little
bit about the virtual cell where we're
going to model a single cell and how it
uh respond is both healthy or sick or
how responds to changes. The virtual
immune system is uh sort of a next level
of uh up where the immune system has
lots of cell types and the cells
communicate with each other and uh they
work together as a team. There's no one
organ. The cells are just communicating
each other and sending signals uh from
far away locations across your body.
Understanding that communication and
when the immune system turns on and off
is actually really important. And the
very cool thing is at our biohub in
Chicago, uh, Shaina Kelly has actually
designed a sensor, really tiny sensor,
kind of like um the continuous glucose
monitor. If you've ever seen anyone wear
one of those,
>> I wore
>> or you was tracking my glucose to see
how I react to certain foods.
>> Okay. Very cool. Right. And so, and you
can just wear it and it gives you
ongoing information. She built a little
sensor like that that reads out the
signals of your immune cells talking to
each other in a living organism which is
incredible because you want to know that
the dynamic system of how it works
together. So she is building the
technology that allows us to measure the
communication between the immune system
and then we can take that data and model
it in a virtual way where then we can
manipulate uh different uh parameters
and actually understand all different
diseases based on this virtual immune
system. And uh that's an example of sort
of how the wet lab empowers the uh AI
modeling and the AI modeling improves
the wet lab and um it's it's incredible.
>> So it's something I'm trying to imagine
2040. So I'm wearing instead of glucose
monitor, I'm wearing this immune
monitor, right? Or what do you
>> Yeah. So let's
>> and it tells me like something.
>> Am I is it okay if I make something up?
>> Yeah. Okay. We're we're in make believe
now, but I think it's possible. Okay. So
say we understand that based on your
genetics, you are at risk for lupus,
okay? And it's an autoimmune disease,
but we know that lupus gets triggered
when a certain molecule increases
um and it when it gets out of balance.
So, we want to know exactly when that
happens, not when you have a flare and
your kidneys aren't working right or
your joints are hurting. We want to know
like the first signal.
>> Yeah. So you could wear a patch that
looks at that molecule and measures the
concentration of it and tells us the
moment that molecule starts increasing
in a way that represents a disease
flare.
>> That's amazing. I would want to wear it
for every disease, right? Even for cold,
like, oh, you're getting something,
there's a bug, go home.
>> So I it's just like imagine that like
that's how you keep someone healthy. You
prevent them from going into flare in
the first place.
>> And that's the best. And then in the for
in the virtual cell model then you can
say okay when this person has a flare um
in lupus we know that this protein is
what is uh working in an inappropriate
way then you could design a custom drug
yeah
>> to help uh modify that
>> so that the we don't have those disease
effects. Anyways this is my makebelieve
land. This is what I daydream about. Um
but I think it's very feasible based on
where science is.
>> So you said uh the things that you're
fascinated about what keeps you up at
night with all this.
>> I think it is so important to work
quickly. I'm not a scientist myself,
right? I'm a pediatrician. So my job is
to understand the barriers to the work
and help eliminate the barriers so that
we can work efficiently and effectively.
Um and that's that's my whole job. And
for everyone who's watching who's a
futurist scientist or wants to be a
doctor, what would be your advice?
>> This is probably the most exciting time
to go into this work and so um do it.
>> How do you see cuz we go to all the LLMs
to ask for health advice, right? How do
you see this change the way people study
now? Maybe cuz maybe you would say they
need to go deeper into science because
this is where all the progress happens
versus just general practice. So we're
going to need people in on the biology
side to continue deepening our knowledge
of the biology. And the interesting
thing is biologists aren't physicians
and they're also not always patients.
Um, and so a physician who has
experience taking care of patients
deep in the science, that's actually
magic because they understand what the
patient faces and they help the
biologist ask the right questions. Like
that's actually very powerful and very
cool. That's the job of the future,
right? Of something that's going to be
in great demand.
>> Totally. But then on the other opposite
on the other end of not opposite I don't
want to paint it like these things are
intention there's also a different need
because right now for instance looking
at skin moles like skin checks or
retinal issues AI is really good at it
like and if you look at the head-to-head
it in is an improvement with than just
the physician reviewing these things on
their own and so what is the role of the
physician I think the role of the
physician is making sure that we are
asking the right questions of AI like
looking at the like this person's at
risk we should look at the skin I also
think it goes back to the original
calling and purpose of a physician which
is a healer and you are you walk
alongside patients going through all
different chapters of their life and um
that's always going to be in need.
>> Was there a moment when discovery felt
deeply personal for you in the past 10
years? Oh, well, you know, the pregnancy
stuff is always interesting. We actually
did a uh study on the single cell
expression of the female reproductive
organs. Like that's because we actually
don't understand. Do you know we don't
understand how labor is triggered?
>> Oh, we don't.
>> We don't. It's magic.
>> Okay.
>> And so
>> I thought it was like hormones, but we
don't know when it starts, right? Like
when the hormones start.
>> We don't know how the whole cascade gets
triggered.
>> Oh wow. Um and so we actually did a
whole project around that. Um but we
also have a portfolio called rare as one
where we bring rare disease groups um
together and give them the training and
resources to engage in the research
process. Those groups are incredible.
They are patients or families of
patients that are full of hope um but
also realistic that you know they can be
part of making the science better but it
might not impact their trajectory like
those groups are what fuel their belief
in science and belief in the future fuel
me.
>> Yeah. Sometimes I don't know who's a
part of these groups. And one day I got
a text message from a friend of my
sister who said, "Say thanks to your
sister." And my mom, my sister was like,
"Why?" And it was because research that
her rare disease group did that allowed
her to get a diagnosis for something
that she had been experiencing.
>> Wow.
>> Not even a cure, not preventing her
disease, just naming it. So she didn't
feel so alone
>> and so powerless like that is something
that like motivates me.
>> This is fascinating. Do you think there
are any diseases that we'll be able to
cure with this technology in our
lifetime or what is the most probable
disease to be cured?
>> I actually think many diseases will be
cured within our lifetime. Um because
you know I trained at UCSF from 2012 to
2015 and diseases that were incurable
death sentences have very reasonable and
effective treatments now and you know
2015 was 10 years ago like that is a
huge difference and baby KJ at CHOP baby
KJ was born with a mutation that would
make it very very difficult to grow up
to have a normal healthy life, but
because we understood the mutation and
we were able to correct it, he's
probably going to live a healthy life.
Like that sounds like also sounds like
science fiction.
>> And it's not just him, right? It's also
future babies who might be born.
>> Exactly. And so I think like the things
that are sort of super ripe right now
are the ones where we have a very clear
understanding of the molecular and
genetic basis of why it happens. So I
can see the pathway for all those
diseases. So we got to get more diseases
to that level of understanding. What is
the genetic underpinning? What is the
molecular underpinning? And we need
better models and we need scientists to
be able to do more risky bold projects
to solve those questions. That is
fascinating that you are doing this work
with with the resources. And are you
waiting for something to happen where
you'd say my mission is fulfilled? I
don't have an idea of what that might be
like. Um I think that there's always
more interesting work to do.
>> So you're always always pushing. My last
question is for every mom who's watching
also wants to build something but you
know kids take a lot of time. What would
be your advice? How do you balance this?
I am extremely disciplined about my
schedule and so I have uh time that is
dedicated to the children and I have
time that's dedicated to work. I don't
mix those things and that's it and
that's okay with me. I you know the more
fun social stuff that will come later
when the kids have left the house.
>> Love it. Yeah. Thank you so much and
thank you for the work that you're
doing. You're definitely changing the
world and hopefully AI is just going to
speed it up uh totally and we'll get
we'll get some great results in five
years.
>> Thanks for shining a light on science.
Thank you.